@cognism

The B2B Sales Process Handbook

Content

Introducing the B2B sales process

Why should you follow a B2B sales process?

The 8 stages of the B2B sales process

1 - Research

2 - Discovery

3 - Qualification

4 - Demonstration

5 - Objection handling

6 - Closing

7 - Follow up

8 - Feedback

Contact Cognism today

It’s Monday morning.

That super star SDR has booked a new meeting in your calendar.

“Ah, good,” you say to yourself. “Time to sit back and relax.”

...said no account exec, ever!

The best AEs know that if they want that meeting to succeed, then they have to get to work, straight away. They have to improve their knowledge. They have to get to know their prospect better. They have to follow a process.

But what is that process?

We asked our business development team for their insights. How do they manage the hard job of B2B sales, from researching prospects to conducting demos and closing business?

They gave us their answers...and then we put them all together in this eBook.

We know that time is money in B2B sales, so we’ll stop wasting yours.

Prepare yourself for the best biz dev guide you’ll read this year.

Strap yourselves in, we’re ready to launch!

Why should you follow a B2B sales process?

Most salespeople enjoy the freedom that comes with their role. The ability to bring their personality to every demo and adapt to changing conversations.

However, the best salespeople aren’t artists - they’re scientists. They use B2B data to form insights and optimize their work.

A B2B sales process provides a framework upon which a salesperson can improvise, while providing 4 additional benefits:

1. Having a more rigid process in place makes it easier for new starters to get up to date.

2. Breaking a sales strategy into stages makes it easier to identify aspects which aren’t working, and adjust them.

3. Seeing where customers are in the sales process makes it easier to forecast more accurately.

4. Having a more structured sales approach makes it impossible to overlook important steps.

The 8 stages of the B2B sales process

What does the B2B sales process look like for Cognism’s AEs? These are the 8 stages they follow:

Feedback Research Follow Discovery Closing Objection handling Demonstration

Now it’s time for the good stuff - let’s explore each of the 8 stages in detail.

Research

Here’s a frightening statistic:

86% of B2B buyers say they see “no real difference between suppliers.”

With so much choice available to customers, it’s more important than ever for AEs/BDMs to make a genuine connection with prospects and clearly display how their product can help change their lives. Through research, before you run a demo, is your route to achieving this. This research phase can help you determine whether or not your product is a good fit for the buyer.

Follow these 3 steps:

Connect with the prospect Visit the company website Read up on the latest industry news on LinkedIn

Activities
- Click onto their LinkedIn profile.
- Look for any news updates or recent industry news.
- Subscribe to LinkedIn groups.
- Look over their career history and any personal milestones, e.g.: awards, event appearances.
- Look for articles/press releases.
- Scroll through the company’s blog (if they have one).
- Create a list of the technology that the company uses.

Outcome
- Make a note of recent company events/milestones and the language/terms the company uses.

With this knowledge, you will sound like an expert in their field - helping you to build trust with the prospect.

“Research is a critical phase in the B2B sales process. You don’t want to waste time or appear unprepared by asking questions when the answers are readily available online. Also, if you can show the prospect that you’ve taken the time to research their business thoroughly, that will go a long way to establishing trust.”

Jonathan Ilett, Sales Director, Cognism

Discovery

2 more stats for you, courtesy of Sales Benchmark Index:

Demos conducted without discovery are 73% less successful than demos conducted with.

Salespeople who tie their demos to specific pain points are 35% more likely to win a deal.

So, now you know how important discovery is. But what is it?

The purpose of discovery is to uncover your prospect’s existing processes and any pain points they may have. The idea is to start a conversation with them and identify exactly how your product can fit into their current workflow and improve it.

The discovery phase can be conducted either over an exploratory “discovery call” before the demo is scheduled, or in the early stage of the demo itself.

If possible, we recommend having a discovery call with the